gigantic hailstorms and me trains
creatures extracting water from star and
Wolverine frogs burn our planet has so
many mysterious secrets they can't all
be counted but let's raise the veil at
least a little bit shall we
there's a gene called sonic hedgehog
that affects your development
there were also genes called Pokemon and
velcro but they were later renamed wild
animals especially monkeys keep the
distance from each other to avoid
contracting diseases when one or a group
of them are sick Statue of Liberty has a
Morton's toe her second toe is longer
than the big toe only 10% of people have
this condition and in ancient Greece it
was considered a beauty standard there's
a subspecies of honey bees in South
Africa that can give birth to new
workers without any help from male bees
ice glaciers are naturally form museums
of human history by studying the layers
of ice we can tell exactly how societies
of the past lived in any given era
there's a tiny thermometer inside every
cell of a living being it detects if
it's too warm for comfort and changes
how the cell works to show they're
hungry captive otters sometimes lie on
their back and flip stones up catching
them when they fall tiger sharks can
travel thousands of miles crossing
entire oceans but no one still knows why
they do that geckos have thousands of
extremely tiny hairs on each of their
toes those allow them to climb and hold
on to any surface koalas drink by
licking water off tree trunks they're
hanging on to
your brain uses different hemispheres to
store different memories things you hear
or read are stored in the left
hemisphere and pictures or events you've
seen in the right one tree frogs confuse
predators by croaking in almost perfect
synchrony with each other their enemies
only hear one frog as a result while
there could be many more seagulls prefer
food that was held by humans over food
they have not seen touch by people the
Atacama Desert in Chile is one of the
driest places on earth yet
microorganisms there can literally
extract water from stone to survive
hidden beneath the ice and frozen earth
and Antarctica and Siberia there are
giant viruses they are ten times larger
than those we know and can survive for
tens of thousands of years where may
rises cold air falls this is true for
any place except tropics they're called
but moist air rises instead keeping the
climate stable heavy rains may cause of
all can occur options water finds its
way underneath the fiery mountains and
increases the pressure making lava burst
out 66 million years ago I wasn't around
then a strange beaver like creature
lived alongside dinosaurs on Madagascar
scientists have no idea which family it
belonged a leaf beetle has been found
that can relieve allergy in millions of
people it feeds on a powerful allergen
and scientists believe it could save us
all a lot of trouble
salmon traveling thousands of miles
every year might be using tiny particles
of magnetite in their bodies to navigate
by magnetic fields forest fires might
seem dangerous but in small measures
they're in fact good for the environment
for example they help wild honeybees to
adapt to harsh conditions in 2018 a
hailstorm pelted a town in
Tina with chunks of ice the size of
volleyballs ow there's a real-life
Jurassic Park in Morocco the chemcam
beds are an extremely rich source of
dinosaur fossils with dozens of species
uncovered in the last few decades in
1876 Kentucky experienced a rain of meat
flakes and chunks of the raw stuff fell
in a shower and continued for a few
minutes
whew that's just wrong a bolt of
lightning can reach temperatures 5 times
higher than the surface of the Sun a
hairy frog species in camera can break
bones in its own limbs to produce sharp
claws right through the skin a real-life
Wolverine frog bubblegum is usually pink
because the first commercial gum made in
1928 was like that pink simply was the
only color of the food dye available at
the factory
the first chewing gum ever though
probably appeared about 10,000 years
back people chewed birch bark tar back
then before 1904 Times Square had been
called Longacre square when the New York
Times moved its headquarters there the
place was renamed you can't name a
folder con on any version of Windows
cats and dogs have three eyelids and so
do many other animals such as camels or
elephants frogs can freeze and thaw
without any harm to their well-being
bananas have a curved shape because they
turn towards the Sun
when you eat spicy food you feel not the
taste of it but a sort of pain dogs can
tell the time of day by smell and they
do it pretty precisely llamas and
donkeys are excellent guard animals for
livestock especially sheep in some areas
of China
police have guard geese instead of dogs
the Hippocratic oath followed by medical
experts worldwide was last revised in
1964 by luis lasagne since then many
refer to it as the oath of lasagne water
boils on top of Mount Everest at 160
degrees Fahrenheit because of a much
lower atmospheric pressure if you would
shuffle a deck of cards to get every
possible combination you'd spend
billions upon billions upon billions of
years just to get a third of the way
there sounds like a huge waste of time
a single gram of DNA can store about 700
terabytes of information the world's
largest desert is not Sahara but
Antarctica and it still has one
functional ATM hmm not sure the
connection but NASA has had a
professional sniffer on their staff for
over 40 years now his job is to test the
smell of anything before the object goes
into space the Eiffel Tower has been
officially married since 2007 the
landmark spouse is Erika Eiffel and if
she was somehow not a very nice person
she'd be known as the awful Eiffel
it takes almost 2,000 gallons of water
to raise just a pound of almonds the
largest human baby ever born weighed
over 15 pounds of all people that ever
lived on the planet roughly 7% are alive
right now the rest not so much a hybrid
of grizzly and polar bear is called a
growler bear or a piddly bear a hybrid
of a domestic cow and American bison is
called a Beefalo parrots help each other
without any selfish reasons even when
the one they help is not their friend or
relative one of the closest relatives of
hyenas is a meerkat Australia has a
fence that's almost as long as the
Amazon River that protects farm lands
from dingoes or wild dogs there's enough
gold in the Earth's core to cover the
whole planet in a foot thick layer the
smallest dinosaur in history was the
size of a bee hummingbird in Scotland
there are more than 400 ways to say snow
get a lot of snow do you now while most
of the world lives in 2020 Ethiopia is
still in 2013 because their calendar is
different Greenland sharks become adults
and start looking for mates only when
they're 150 years old their average
lifespan is about 400 years so they're
very choosy folding a simple sheet of
paper 103 times will get you outside the
boundaries of the observable universe
Oxford University was established in
1096 which makes it over 200 years older
than the Aztec civilization all that
homecoming is a trip the first book
printed in Oxford had a mistake on the
very first page it was the date of its
printing
spandex a fiber used for making sports
clothing got its name as an anagram of
the word expands and it does scientists
sped up evolution for baby snails when
the critters were exposed to platinum
they developed without shells basketball
was invented in 1891 but up until 1894
it was played with a soccer ball by 2050
there will be no ice in the Arctic Ocean
in summer there are about three trillion
trees on our planet that's almost 30
times more than there are stars in the
Milky Way galaxy ring-tailed lemurs have
patches on their wrists giving off a
pleasant scent to attract mates around
34 million years ago ancient primates
crossed the Atlantic from Africa to
South America and nobody knows how while
Aurora's are usually green and blue
Japan witnessed a red one about 1,400
years ago in February of this year the
tallest waterfall in Ecuador San Rafael
suddenly stopped flowing a huge sinkhole
appeared just before the fall and
diverted the stream the South Pole was a
lush tropical rainforest about 90
million years ago
number one isn't exactly one it's
zero-point infinite nights there's a
state at which water can be both boiling
and freezing
I'm guessing Alaska oops sorry not that
kind of state IKEA isn't a word but an
acronym it stands for the name of its
founder Ingvar Kamprad the farm he grew
up at and his hometown soap operas got
their name from the first advertiser
sponsoring dramas on radio and TV they
were mainly cleaning and detergent
products manufacturers
scientists believe there can be up to 30
million species of insects on earth but
only a little over 900,000 have been
identified yet during the 20th century
so much ice has melted off Greenland
that our planets axis shifted narwhals
dubbed
unicorns of the sea don't actually have
horns those long spiral shaped things
are overgrown teeth horses can have
dashing mustaches to match their manes
and they look fabulous the tallest
cactus in the world is in Mexico and
it's 63 feet tall that's like four
giraffes stacked on top of each other at
any given moment there are two points on
earth exactly opposite to each other but
having exactly the same temperature and
atmospheric pressure since birds have
evolved from dinosaurs and had a
crocodilian ancestor they just might
have been classified as reptiles the
fastest racing pigeon in the world going
by the name of Armando is also the most
expensive bird ever it was sold at an
auction for 1.4 million dollars Formula
One racing cars are constructed in such
a way that at a certain speed they could
be driving on a ceiling the colors of
the Olympic rings are no chance thing at
least one of the colors appears in flags
of every country in the world
both Charlie Chaplin and Dolly Parton
participated in their own look-alike
contests and lost dramatically the
production of the 1997 movie Titanic
cost more than the construction of the
actual ship the letter Z was removed
from the Latin alphabet in 300 BCE and
returned two centuries later Zeta Yusei
if you have an itch in your right arm
look in the mirror and scratch the same
point on your left arm the itch will
probably go away your tongue and lips
get irritated when you eat a lot of
pineapple because of bromelain an enzyme
that destroys proteins pineapples
basically eat you while you're eating
them one horse can produce up to almost
15 horsepower at its peak performance an
average human can produce up to 5
horsepower sounds to me like the unit of
measurement is a little off don't you
think sunflower translated to Turkish is
called moon flower statistically only
one in 76 billion people can have IQ of
200 it means no one living today should
have this level of intelligence the
average cumulus cloud or the big fluffy
type weighs around 1 million pounds and
still it floats the tiniest thing ever
photograph was the shadow of an atom by
2100 scientists predict that the sea
level will rise by 4 feet rats can smell
if their pack members are hungry and
share their food with them the ancestor
of all modern animals including
ourselves lived in Australia for about a
half a billion years ago and looked much
like an earthworm some butterflies wings
are 100 times blacker than charcoal but
this effect is just an optical illusion
created thanks to the wing structure in
Central Asia ethnic singers can produce
two distinctive sounds simultaneously
with their throat so try singing two
different notes at the same time that's
it domestic cats influence wildlife in
their vicinity much more than other wild
animals especially predators
there's an ant species that has been
evolving in both directions forwards and
then backwards in just 12 days of eating
sugar our brain structure changes and we
have a hard time doing without sweet
stuff afterwards
hey chew on that one for a while
[Music]